README.md, before:

![Build status](https://api.travis-ci.org/AUEB-BALab/RepoFS.png?branch=master)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.2525388.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2525388)

RepoFS
======

RepoFS represents the Git version control system as
a virtual file system where all commits and their contents
can be traversed concurrently in a read-only manner
using shell commands.

Read the complete description and methodology on
[SoftwareX](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352711018300712)

You can cite RepoFS as follows.
Vitalis Salis and Diomidis Spinellis.
RepoFS: File system view of Git repositories.
SoftwareX, Volume 9, 2019, Pages 288-292, ISSN 2352-7110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2019.03.007.


# Installation

RepoFS requires Python >= 3.6 and an installation of libgit2@1.1.0 and fuse.
**Note**: If your vendor doesn't provide libgit2 v1.1.0 you can manually build
and install it from source, following the instructions outlined below.

## Debian & Ubuntu
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ apt install libffi-dev libgit2-dev=1.1.0 fuse python3-pip
~ ❯❯❯ pip3 install repofs
```

## Arch Linux
Available in the AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/repofs-git/.

Using `pacaur`:
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ pacaur -S repofs-git
```

## OSx
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ brew install libgit2 fuse python3
~ ❯❯❯ pip3 install repofs
```

## Manual installation of libgit2

```bash
~ ❯❯❯ wget https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2/archive/v1.1.0.tar.gz
~ ❯❯❯ tar xzf v1.1.0.tar.gz
~ ❯❯❯ cd libgit2-1.1.0/
~ ❯❯❯ cmake .
~ ❯❯❯ make
~ ❯❯❯ sudo make install
~ ❯❯❯ sudo ldconfig
```

Usage
=====

```bash
~ ❯❯❯ repofs -h
usage: repofs [-h] [--hash-trees] [--no-ref-symlinks] [--no-cache] repo mount

positional arguments:
  repo               Git repository to be processed.
  mount              Path where the FileSystem will be mounted.If it doesn't
                     exist it is created and if it exists and contains files
                     RepoFS exits.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  --hash-trees       Store 256 entries (first two digits) at each levelof
                     commits-by-hash for the first three levels.
  --no-ref-symlinks  Do not create symlinks for commits of refs.
  --no-cache         Do not use the cache
```

The mount directory contains four directories:

- `commits-by-hash`: Directory containing all commits of the Git repository.
A commit directory will contain the state of the repository at the time the
commit was made. Since this directory can get large you can further organize it
using the `--hash-trees` command line parameter.
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-hash
06f3d110140b7ac97d000aace0ef4a4233512b6c  47d3af84ddb24690a76ffac32971313cbe500841
082974029413f8c44a07912d1d581d26744fc994  491307a672a07f0354134953fd356998e07fef63
09b371c11e80eb3fe27415c4bdfce367f6bd0279  4a8c2daab3d21c016738a19e7dc8ad8eb3a02eca
...
...
```
- `commits-by-date`: Directory containing all commits of the Git repository
  organized by the time of their creation.
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date
2017    2018
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date/2017
01  02  03  04  05  06  07  08  09  10  11  12
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date/2017/12
01  02  03  04  05  06  07  08  09  10  11  12
13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24
25  26  27  28  29  30  31
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date/2017/12/18
1a6ca70a91f6ec1fb4de5a80bfb20a0d7b484680  2677b75fd531be570373fe25fc7d576c92e8acd3
58e16f66ae5df0b6e632144ac72c7dd9e3baea37  c5bbc3be37479b23e833d1cb6bddb31ca95f8293
```
- `tags`: Contains all tags of the Git repository. We represent the tag
  relationship as a symbolic link to the commit the tag points to. In order for
  the Unix command `find` to work properly we provide the `--no-ref-symlinks`
  option.
- `branches`: Similar to the tags directory. Contains all branch names and
  further organizes them to remote branches and local branches.
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ ls branches
heads  remotes
~ ❯❯❯ ls branches/remotes
origin
~ ❯❯❯ ls branches/remotes/origin
HEAD  master
```

Run `man repofs` after installation for a complete explanation of RepoFS'
usage.

To unmount a Git repository from a specific mount point run `umount <mount_dir>`.

Commit message:

Allow analysis of remote repos
This code changes the input params to let run
RepoFS on remote repositories. The tool requires
an URI which targets the repo to process, two
optional params can be used to define the
local paths of the cloned repo and file system.

The new params are:
- Uri, which points to the local/remote repo
- Git-path (optional), which points where the repo
  will be cloned locally. If null, the default
  root location is ~/.repofs/repositories
- Mount-path (optional), which points where the FS will
  be mounted. If null, the default root location is
  ~/.repofs/mounts

An example of RepoFS call from cmd is:
```
repofs https://github.com/org/repo
```

When the tool is executed, the target repo is cloned
only if it doesn't exist, otherwise pygit2 is used
to pull all branches. The corresponding code added in
the main() relies on https://github.com/MichaelBoselowitz/pygit2-examples/blob/master/examples.py#L54.

The logic included in __main__ has been moved to /bin/repofs
for refactor purposes.

The requirements.txt is included to test the tool as
follows:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt -e .
```

README.md, after:

![Build status](https://api.travis-ci.org/AUEB-BALab/RepoFS.png?branch=master)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.2525388.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2525388)

RepoFS
======

RepoFS represents the Git version control system as
a virtual file system where all commits and their contents
can be traversed concurrently in a read-only manner
using shell commands.

Read the complete description and methodology on
[SoftwareX](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352711018300712)

You can cite RepoFS as follows.
Vitalis Salis and Diomidis Spinellis.
RepoFS: File system view of Git repositories.
SoftwareX, Volume 9, 2019, Pages 288-292, ISSN 2352-7110,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2019.03.007.


# Installation

RepoFS requires Python >= 3.6 and an installation of libgit2@1.1.0 and fuse.
**Note**: If your vendor doesn't provide libgit2 v1.1.0 you can manually build
and install it from source, following the instructions outlined below.

## Debian & Ubuntu
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ apt install libffi-dev libgit2-dev=1.1.0 fuse python3-pip
~ ❯❯❯ pip3 install repofs
```

## Arch Linux
Available in the AUR: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/repofs-git/.

Using `pacaur`:
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ pacaur -S repofs-git
```

## OSx
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ brew install libgit2 fuse python3
~ ❯❯❯ pip3 install repofs
```

## Manual installation of libgit2

```bash
~ ❯❯❯ wget https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2/archive/v1.1.0.tar.gz
~ ❯❯❯ tar xzf v1.1.0.tar.gz
~ ❯❯❯ cd libgit2-1.1.0/
~ ❯❯❯ cmake .
~ ❯❯❯ make
~ ❯❯❯ sudo make install
~ ❯❯❯ sudo ldconfig
```

Usage
=====

```bash
~ ❯❯❯ repofs -h
usage: repofs [-h] [--hash-trees] [--no-ref-symlinks] [--no-cache] repo mount

positional arguments:
  uri               URI of the Git repository to be processed.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help         show this help message and exit
  --git-path         Path where the Git repository will be cloned.
  --mount-path       Path where the file system will be mounted
  --foreground       Allow to execute the tool in foreground mode.
  --hash-trees       Store 256 entries (first two digits) at each levelof
                     commits-by-hash for the first three levels.
  --no-ref-symlinks  Do not create symlinks for commits of refs.
  --no-cache         Do not use the cache
```

The mount directory contains four directories:

- `commits-by-hash`: Directory containing all commits of the Git repository.
A commit directory will contain the state of the repository at the time the
commit was made. Since this directory can get large you can further organize it
using the `--hash-trees` command line parameter.
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-hash
06f3d110140b7ac97d000aace0ef4a4233512b6c  47d3af84ddb24690a76ffac32971313cbe500841
082974029413f8c44a07912d1d581d26744fc994  491307a672a07f0354134953fd356998e07fef63
09b371c11e80eb3fe27415c4bdfce367f6bd0279  4a8c2daab3d21c016738a19e7dc8ad8eb3a02eca
...
...
```
- `commits-by-date`: Directory containing all commits of the Git repository
  organized by the time of their creation.
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date
2017    2018
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date/2017
01  02  03  04  05  06  07  08  09  10  11  12
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date/2017/12
01  02  03  04  05  06  07  08  09  10  11  12
13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24
25  26  27  28  29  30  31
~ ❯❯❯ ls commits-by-date/2017/12/18
1a6ca70a91f6ec1fb4de5a80bfb20a0d7b484680  2677b75fd531be570373fe25fc7d576c92e8acd3
58e16f66ae5df0b6e632144ac72c7dd9e3baea37  c5bbc3be37479b23e833d1cb6bddb31ca95f8293
```
- `tags`: Contains all tags of the Git repository. We represent the tag
  relationship as a symbolic link to the commit the tag points to. In order for
  the Unix command `find` to work properly we provide the `--no-ref-symlinks`
  option.
- `branches`: Similar to the tags directory. Contains all branch names and
  further organizes them to remote branches and local branches.
```bash
~ ❯❯❯ ls branches
heads  remotes
~ ❯❯❯ ls branches/remotes
origin
~ ❯❯❯ ls branches/remotes/origin
HEAD  master
```

Run `man repofs` after installation for a complete explanation of RepoFS'
usage.

To unmount a Git repository from a specific mount point run `umount <mount_dir>`.
